+++
title = 'X-27'
date = '2022-07-09'
categories = ['projects', 'javascript', 'rust']
slug = 'X-27'
tags = ['javascript','express', 'mongodb']
+++

[X-27](https://x-27.herokuapp.com/) is a URL shorten-er that gives you the names of most violent serial killers, rapists and murders in its URL path as a slug.

### Just Why ?

Well… because [Mindhunter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mindhunter_(TV_series)). It’s a show about two FBI agents in the 70s, who are tasked with interviewing serial killers to solve cases. I was really taken in by the show and I wanted to build something inspired by it and I decided to make a URL shorten-er with the name of serial killers as slugs.

### How

X-27 is built with Express as the back-end framework, it’s a fast and minimal node framework and MongoDB is used as the database, because the data stored is in a simple key value pair format, so a document database like MongoDB makes sense and MongoDB also has a generous free tier for hosting which is a big plus and for all the records of serial killers/convicts names it scrapes that data from Wikipedia pages using cheerio. As the data from Wikipedia is pretty standalone so its kept in a `.txt` file rather than being stored in the db and the application is hosted on Heroku.

### Structure and Workings

The [project](https://github.com/echosonusharma/-27) was built in the early days of my career and well under an 1hr, close to like 40min, thus lacks lot of the improvements it could have. All the static content for the front-end is served from the server and because of it being really small all the main code for handling everything is listed in `index.js` file. It’s also has security features like rate limiting and slowdowns...etc. MongoDB schema for the slug is in `slug.js` file. Scraping script for getting the data from Wikipedia is in `scrape.js` file, it can automatically run every week and update the data. As the data on Wikipedia does not update on a high frequency, updating is disabled by default and also Heroku doesn't allow persistent writes on disk upon restart of the application.

### Limitations

The application is mainly limited by the numbers of unique names of serial killer/convicts it can have, which is close to 900 right now after which it will start showing it ran out of slugs to use.

### Future

Because of the project being small and simple. I’ve decided to port this application using multiple stacks, as a learning and exploring experience. I'm currently porting this application in rocket, a rust based web framework and dotent framework, they will soon be listed here.
